.Dd September 20, 2013
.Dt MUPEN64PLUS 6
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mupen64plus
.Nd console front\(hyend for the Mupen64Plus N64 emulator
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op parameters
.Ar romfile
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a plugin\(hybased N64 emulator for Linux/Unix, OSX, and Windows which is capable of accurately playing many games.
Included are four MIPS R4300 CPU emulators, with dynamic recompilers for 32\(hybit x86 and 64\(hybit amd64 systems, and necessary plugins for audio, graphical rendering (RDP), signal co\(hyprocessor (RSP), and input.
There are several OpenGL video plugins available:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Rice, included with the distribution
.It
Glide64Mk2, included with the distribution
.It
.Lk https://github.com/mupen64plus/mupen64plus-video-arachnoid Arachnoid
.It
.Lk https://github.com/mupen64plus/mupen64plus-video-glide64 Glide64
(old)
.It
.Lk https://github.com/mupen64plus/mupen64plus-video-z64 Z64
(must be used with the rsp-z64 plugin)
.El
.Pp
The most current documentation can be found at the project\(cqs
.Lk https://mupen64plus.org/ homepage .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Fl h , Fl Fl help
Print help message.
.It Fl Fl noosd
Disable onscreen display.
.It Fl Fl osd
Enable onscreen display.
.It Fl Fl fullscreen
Run emulator in fullscreen display mode.
.It Fl Fl windowed
Run emulator in windowed display mode.
.It Fl Fl resolution Ar res
Display resolution (640\(mu480, 800\(mu600, 1024\(mu768, etc)
.It Fl Fl nospeedlimit
Disable core speed limiter.
This should be used with the dummy audio plugin.
.It Fl Fl cheats Ar cheat\(hyspec
Enable or list cheat codes for the given rom file.
.It Fl Fl corelib Ar filepath
Specifies a filename (optionally with a preceding directory path) to load a specific
.Nm
core library.
.It Fl Fl configdir Ar directory
Specifies a directory to look for the
.Pa mupen64plus.cfg
file.
Default is
.Pa ~/.config/mupen64plus/ .
.It Fl Fl datadir Ar directory
Specifies a directory to search for shared data files (fonts, cheat codes, .ini files).
Default is
.Pa ${PREFIX}/share/mupen64plus/ .
.It Fl Fl plugindir Ar directory
Specifies a directory to search for plugin files.
Default is
.Pa ${PREFIX}/lib/mupen64plus/ .
.It Fl Fl sshotdir Ar directory
Specifies a directory to save screenshots captured during gameplay.
Default is
.Pa ~/.local/share/mupen64plus/screenshot/ .
.It Fl Fl gfx Ar plugin\(hyspec
Specifies a
.Ar plugin\(hyspec
to select a graphics plugin for use during emulation.
.It Fl Fl audio Ar plugin\(hyspec
Specifies a
.Ar plugin\(hyspec
to select an audio plugin for use during emulation.
.It Fl Fl input Ar plugin\(hyspec
Specifies a
.Ar plugin\(hyspec
to select an input plugin for use during emulation.
.It Fl Fl rsp Ar plugin\(hyspec
Specifies a
.Ar plugin\(hyspec
to select an RSP plugin for use during emulation.
.It Fl Fl emumode Ar mode
Specifies which mode the emulator core should run in.
.Ar mode
should be set to one of the following numbers:
.Bl -inset
.It 0
Pure Interpreter
.It 1
Cached Interpreter
.It 2
Dynamic Recompiler (DynaRec)
.El
.It Fl Fl testshots Ar list
Take screenshots at frames given in the comma\(hyseparated
.Ar list ,
then quit.
.It Fl Fl core-compare-send
Use the core comparison debugging feature, in data sending mode.
If the core was not compiled with support for the Core Comparison feature, then the emulator will exit with an error.
.It Fl Fl core-compare-recv
Use the core comparison debugging feature, in data receiving mode.
If the core was not compiled with support for the Core Comparison feature, then the emulator will exit with an error.
.It Fl Fl set Ar param\(hyspec
Set the value of a
.Nm
configuration parameter.
This option may be used multiple times.
The format of
.Ar param\(hyspec
is
.Dl Section\(hyName[Param\(hyName]=Value
.It Fl Fl nosaveoptions
Do not save the given command\(hyline options into the
.Nm
configuration file to use as defaults in the future.
.It Fl Fl verbose
Print lots of information.
Useful for debugging but unnecessary for normal use.
.El
.Sh plugin\(hyspec
.Bl -ohang
.It (plugin\(hyname)
Filename (without path) of plugin to use.
Application will search through several directories to look for a matching plugin name.
.It (plugin\(hypath)
Full directory path and filename of plugin.
.It Sq dummy
Use the dummy plugin.
.El
.Sh cheat\(hyspec
.Bl -ohang
.It Sq list
Show all of the available cheat codes.
.It Sq all
Enable all of the available cheat codes.
.It (codelist)
A comma separated list of cheat code numbers to enable.
.El
.Sh KEY COMMANDS
The following shortcut keys can be used during emulation.
These are the default key values; nearly all of them may be set to different keys by editing the
.Nm
configuration file.
.Bl -tag -width Alt\(hyEnter
.It Escape
Quit the emulator.
.It 0\(en9
Select virtual
.Sq slot
for save/load state.
.It F5
Save emulator state to current slot.
.It F7
Load emulator state from current slot.
.It F9
Reset emulator.
.It F10
Slow down emulator speed by 5 percent.
.It F11
Speed up emulator speed by 5 percent.
.It F12
Take screenshot.
.It Alt\(hyEnter
Toggle fullscreen mode.
This is not supported on Windows.
.It p or P
Pause/continue emulation.
.It m or M
Mute/unmute sound.
.It f or F
Fast Forward (playback at 250% normal speed as long as key is pressed).
.It g or G
Press GameShark button (if cheats are enabled).
.It / or \&?
Advance one frame if paused.
.It \(lB
Decrease volume.
.It \(rB
Increase volume.
.El
.Sh FILES
The default location for the
.Nm
configuration file is
.Pa ~/.config/mupen64plus/ .
The default location of the saved screenshots is
.Pa ~/.local/share/mupen64plus/screenshot/ .
The default location of the save states is
.Pa ~/.local/share/mupen64plus/save/ .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Nm
was originally started by
.An Richard42
and
.An nmn ,
and is based on Mupen64 (originally written by
.An Hacktarux ) .
.Pp
This man page was written by
.An ebenblues ,
and updated by
.An Richard42
and
.An Anthony J. Bentley .
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Mupen64plus is \(co 2008\(en2013 The Mupen64plus Team
.Pp
License GPLv2+,
.Lk https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html GNU GPL version 2 or later
.Pp
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is
.Em no warranty ,
to the extent permitted by law.
.Sh BUGS
To report bugs or make feature requests, use the
.Lk https://github.com/mupen64plus/mupen64plus-core/issues "issue tracker"
